request for joining I don't request
accept please release the vehicle pedals
please readings stay right where it
looks like a normal truck with another
truck and three passenger cars behind it
in fact this is the first time ever that
the Sartre project tests a Road train on
a normal motorway in every day traffic
conditions I think it's really
impressive I think we spent the last two
and a half years developing a
demonstrator and to be able to get that
out onto the public highway and show L
actually work is really really
impressive and very pleased and the
advantages of a Road train are many
convenient since I can do something else
that than the actual driving safe since
the system will take care of the driving
it will eliminate the human errors and
then fuel-efficient since we use a minor
gap size between the vehicles we will
reduce air drag and thereby fuel
consumption the aim of this test just
outside Barcelona is to acquire more
experience and knowledge about how a
vehicle platoon in convoy where a lead
vehicle with a professional driver who
both steers and wirelessly communicates
with four vehicles behind him actually
works in practice in normal traffic
amongst normal motorists and it's easy
to see the numerous advantages of not
having to steer accelerate and brake
yourself it's quite fun to see here the
passing vehicles
they are quite surprised seeing me not
driving the car but reading a magazine
they will burn back it's easier actually
not driving the researchers want to find
out how both drivers and passengers
experience sitting in a car at 85
kilometres an hour when it's being
controlled by somebody else I think it
gets easier as time progresses and
people become more familiar with the
technology and they accept it more I
think as generations progress they
become more familiar with it and more
accepting of it my son he's asking me
questions about this he wants to see it
on the roads now within the Sartre
project which stands for safe road
trains for the environment a
three-year-old EU project being run by
seven collaborating partners including
the volvo car corporation they all see
the test here in Spain as a very
important milestone where a great deal
has been learned today we had slopes we
had winds it was quite windy a lot of
other traffic and it was great to see
that the system could could handle it so
very very very positive experience
although the researchers now know that
the technology works it will be a major
step forward to ensure that legislation
and insurance companies across Europe
agree that this is one of the ways
forward to increase road safety and
reduce fuel consumption